<p align="center">![NSU logo](https://media.dhakatribune.com/uploads/2016/11/nsulogo.jpg)</p>

<p align="center">
<b>North South University</b></p>

<p align="center"><b>Department of Electrical & Computer Engineering</b></p>

<p align="center">**Project Proposal**</p>

<p align="center">**Group No**: 7</p>

<p align="center">**Summer 2019**</p>

<p align="center">**Project Name**: NSU ALUMNI PORTAL</p>

<p align="center">**Course No**: CSE 299 **Sec:** 16</p>

<p align="center">**Semester**: Summer</p>

<p align="center">**Faculty**: Shaikh Shawon Arefin Shimon (Sas3)</p>

<p align="center">*Member 1:*</p>

<p align="center">**Name:** Mohammed Wasekur Rahman</p>

<p align="center">**ID:** 1713032042</p>

<p align="center">**Email:** <mohammed.rahman03@northsouth.edu></p>

<p align="center">**Member 2:**</p>

<p align="center">**Name:** MD Hasan Ud-Doula</p>

<p align="center">**ID:** 1620545042</p>

<p align="center">**Email:** <ud.doula@northsouth.edu></p>

<p align="center">**Git Repository:** <https://github.com/WasekRahman/SU19CSE299S16G07NSU/></p>

<p align="center">**Date Prepared:** 20/06/2019</p>

**INTRODUCTION**

We learn more about an academic institute by keeping track of their graduates.
It is because of these graduates that such an institute grow in the first place.
Unfortunately, North South University does not have a system to keep in touch
with its graduates. As a result, we are losing track of the valuable and well
respected alumni of North South University. To ensure that this does not happen,
we have come up with NSU Alumni Portal.

Our mission is to connect all existing alumni no matter where they are in this
world with internet connection. Each alumnus can create their own profile and
keep it updated to date with their educational and professional information
enabling access to various forms of networking. You can also search up any
registered alumnus and contact them when necessary.

NSU Alumni Portal is a web application built with the latest technologies,
promising North South University’s alumni to be associated with the community.

**FEATURES**

-   Easy signup process using the student’s NSU email address

-   An alumnus can also signup using their NSU ID or grade sheet – this will
    verified by the Admin Panel

-   Customizable profile – an alumnus can update their profile photo, basic
    information and contact information

-   Bulk SMS can be sent

-   News section – latest news regarding NSU will be shown

-   Connect – an alumnus can choose to stay connected with another alumnus to
    share personal information and get daily updates from one another

-   Real- time chat

-   Alumni can be searched using company names

-   Auto suggestion assistant – this enables fast search results of companies

-   Admin Panel – the admins will have full control over the whole system
    adding/updating company names and/or updating other information

**TECHNOLOGY**

We decided to go with latest technologies for developing this application in
order to give users a better experience.

*Frontend*

For the front end we will be using HTML, CSS, JavaScript and React. This enables
cross platform development which allows the web app to be compatible with both
PC and mobile platforms. It also gives a more premium user interface and
smoother experience.

*Backend*

Python’s web framework - Django will be used as the website’s backend. Django
ensures rapid development providing high security and maintanence.

*Database*

We will be using MongoDB as the database. MongoDB uses JSON or BSON documents to
store data and provides high performance, availability and automatic scaling.

*Payment method*

Python’s Stripe Library will be used for collecting payments. This API is
designed with python and allows custom ways to take payments – Credit cards,
Gift cards etc. We will be using this API to ensure that users can pay using
their Visa Cards and MasterCards.

*Additional technologies*

Allauth for Django will be used to allow users to login using their Facebook
and/or Google account.

We will integrate a real-time chatting system using Django – Channels within the
website.

To keep up with the modern forms of technology we would be using additional
technologies to ensure complete user satisfaction. GraphQL is a query language
which will act as a bridge between the server-side and the client-side. It
provides a faster and efficient way of pulling data from the database.

**Monetization**

As the web application is targeting the alumni & authority of North South
University, we will try to get fund from the university.

Companies can also place ads on the NSU Alumni Portal for jobs charging 100 BDT
per day. We will provide an advertisement package for such companies. As we are
integrating the stripe library, making payments for any users will be easy and
secured.
